# Churn_Email_Activity-using-Scala-

Email Inbox Analysis with Scala
Overview:

This project uses Scala to perform an analysis on an email inbox dataset (mbox-short.txt). It includes various functions to extract insights from the dataset, such as counting the number of lines, subject lines, calculating the average spam confidence, finding email sent days, and counting messages from email addresses and domains.
Project Structure

    inbox_analysis.scala: Scala script containing the code for email inbox analysis.
    mbox-short.txt: Sample email inbox dataset used for analysis.
    README.md: This document, providing an overview and instructions for the project.

Prerequisites:

Before running the Scala script, ensure you have Scala installed on your system. You can download and install Scala from the official website: Scala Downloads
Usage:

    Clone this repository to your local machine:
    git clone https://github.com/Archit-10/Churn_Email_Activity-using-Scala-

Navigate to the project directory:
cd email-inbox-analysis

    Open the inbox_analysis.scala script using your preferred text editor or Scala IDE.

    Run the Scala script to execute the email inbox analysis functions. You can run the functions one by one as needed.

    Review the results generated by the script to gain insights into the email inbox dataset.

Functions and Results

    number_of_lines(): Counts the number of lines in the email inbox dataset.

    Result: 1910 lines in the dataset.

    count_subject_lines(): Counts the number of subject lines in the dataset.

    Result: 27 subject lines found.

    average_spam_confidence(): Calculates the average spam confidence score in the dataset.

    Result: Average spam confidence score is approximately 0.7507186.

    find_email_sent_days(): Identifies the days of the week when emails were sent and counts the occurrences.

    Result: Emails were sent on Thursday (6), Friday (20), and Saturday (1).

    count_message_from_email(): Counts the number of messages sent from each email address.

    Result: See the list of email addresses and their respective message counts.

    count_message_from_domain(): Counts the number of messages sent from each email domain.

    Result: See the list of email domains and their respective message counts.

Dataset:
The mbox-short.txt file contains the sample email inbox dataset used for analysis. You can replace it with your own email dataset for a customized analysis.
